[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, it's James here
from Food Matters,
and welcome to this
interview with Sonia Ricotti.
Sonia is an expert at
helping people bounce back
from disaster and tragedy,
whether it's emotional,
financial or health.
And she is an expert,
because she's been there
before herself, and she's
developed tools techniques
and strategies to help
millions of other people
turn a breakdown
to a breakthrough.
And we're going to be talking
with her today about what
it takes to bounce back.
Sonia.
>> Hi.
>> How are you doing?
>> I'm great, how are you?
>> Good, thank you.
So your story starts
with your story.
You have had an interesting one.
Can you share that
with me, what happened,
where was it, when was it?
>> Oh, boy, yes.
So a few years ago, my entire
life just came crashing down.
And I had lost my home
due to foreclosure.
I was six figures in debt,
$124,000 to be exact.
I also, my ex was an alcoholic.
That relationship broke up.
And I had a very
serious health challenge
where I had a serious blood
clot as well, under my arm,
so very close to
my heart and lungs.
And so I had to go into
emergency treatment for that.
And the crazy part is, all
those things happened all
at the same time.
And as everything was
going on in my life
and just crashing down, I just,
I literally fell to my knees.
I just didn't know how I
was going to get through it.
I didn't know how I was
going to get out of it.
I really hit rock bottom.
And everything was fine
before any of that.
And all of a sudden overnight,
things just started.
It was like a snowball, and
things just, this happened
and this happened
and this happened.
It was like when
it rains, it pours.
And I got to a place one
day where I hit rock bottom.
And I was in my, and I remember
this like it was yesterday.
And I was lying in my
bed and just crying.
Crying, crying, crying all by
myself, rolled up in a ball.
And the story that I
kept on telling myself
is, how did this
happen, how am I
going to get out of this,
what am I going to do.
And I felt really helpless.
And for a really brief moment,
I wanted to end it all.
And not because I wanted to end
it all like really end it all,
I just wanted the pain to stop.
I didn't know how to
make that pain stop.
And so what I
allowed myself to do,
is I just allowed myself
to just cry it all out.
You know, sometimes when we're
going through a difficult time
and we want to cry or
we feel like crying,
we do everything possible to not
do that and distract ourselves.
And I actually allowed myself in
that moment to play the victim
and just said, just cry it out.
And what's amazing by
doing that, by the way,
is that you just release
it out to the universe.
And you immediately feel
better to honor yourself
and what you're feeling.
You know what?
It's OK to feel bad when
something bad happens.
Something bad's happening.
Life is life, things happen.
So I allowed that.
And allowed myself
to cry my eyes
were all swollen and
tears down my face.
And after crying for about a
good hour, I got out of bed,
I walked around the
bed to the window.
And I was looking
outside the window.
And I remember there was
this beautiful maple tree.
And I just looked
out the window and I
said, I don't know
why this is happening,
but one thing I know for sure,
something big, something huge,
something way bigger than me
is going to come out of this,
because I'm not going through
all this crap for nothing.
And it was like a declaration.
It was an intention I sent.
I sent out to the universe.
I'm going to repeat that.
Because I think it's really
important for everyone
when they're going
through a difficult time
to create their own declaration
and set their intention.
I didn't do it intentionally.
That was just a natural thing.
I did, but it was the
best thing I ever did.
I don't know why
this is happening,
but one thing I know for sure,
is something big, something
huge, something
way bigger than me
is going to come out of
this, because I'm not going
through this crap for nothing.
And I'm not kidding you.
Once I did that, it was
like I sent the message out
to god, universe,
whatever you believe in,
and it got the wheels in motion.
And about a week later, I
was still in that house.
We hadn't lost it yet,
we're about to lose it.
And as I was walking up
the stairs of that house,
on the fifth step I got
a message from wherever.
And it was one word, and that
one word was, unsinkable.
And it was so random.
I remember, it so
weird, I could,
I remember actually where
I was and when it happened.
And the message came and it was
one word, it was unsinkable.
And I knew exactly
what it meant.
Wasn't like, well,
that's a weird word,
where did that come from.
And it was unsinkable.
I go, oh, interesting.
I understand now.
And I continued walking up.
I got to the landing and I
said, I really get it now.
I'm going through all this
stuff because my mission in life
is to help others bounce
back from difficult times.
Now get your butt in gear,
Sonia, and bounce back quickly
and turn it around so you can
go out there and teach others.
And that's what I did.
>> Amazing.
With regards to that
moment of insight
where you turned the situation
around, my observation of that
is that you created a new sense
of meaning around something.
How is it that meaning can help
change the situation for people
when they're going
through something?
Because you've given
that a different meaning.
You said, well, this
is, there's going
to be something big coming out
of this, like that's a choice.
>> It's a choice, definitely.
And whatever choice
you make and whatever
meaning you add to
whatever is going on,
will determine your outcome and
how quickly you bounce back.
I could have chosen something
completely opposite.
My life is over, I can't believe
this, what am I going to do,
I'm such a loser, how did this
happen to me, I can't believe.
Like all these negative things.
I will never get out of this
mess and be bitter forever
and ever, and we all know
people who are like that.
But that wasn't my, I
found, I found a meaning
that is bigger than me.
That was something
like it was that light
at the end of the tunnel
and it was really bright,
and I knew it was there
and I needed to find
my way outside that tunnel.
And so that meaning
is really important.
And we can choose that
at any given time.
We can choose a
different meaning.
And the best way to find out you
know whether it's serving you
or not is, how do you feel.
Whatever meaning
you've made it mean
or whatever meaning you
added to that situation,
does it make you feel
expanded or contracted?
And so for me, being
able to help humanity
around this, because people
are suffering everywhere,
I all of a sudden was grateful
in that moment for a little.
Like I obviously wish I
could come to this big aha
without going through
all this stuff
and be able to help people.
But you know what?
People wouldn't
listen to me if I had.
If I hadn't experienced
pain and suffering,
they would have said,
you don't understand.
So I had to go through
it to be able to do that.
I chose that.
I could have made a million
other choice choices.
And anyone can choose
at any given moment
what they want it to mean.
In the end, I really
believe that you
can get through anything.
And you can turn lemonade
from lemons, if you choose to.
Or you could take those lemons
and just keep them as lemons.
>> The thing about your
transformation that I find
interesting, is that one of
the first steps was this huge
aspirational goal in a way,
which seems unfathomable
for a lot of people.
How is dreaming big
such an important part
of this process for you?
And how can you take really, how
did you take yourself, I mean,
it was more a moment of
insight more than anything,
I would say.
Like some sort of divine insight
that helped you see this.
But how do you take people from
being stuck to dreaming big?
And how is dreaming
big and important part
of going through a
difficult challenge?
>> You know, it's interesting,
because it's even,
it sounds very evolved and
oh, I got this message.
But in reality, if you really
analyze this and break it down,
it was really more, it
was more out of spite.
It was more out of,
oh yeah, well, I'm
not going through this
stuff for nothing.
I'll show you.
Who, I don't know.
Seriously.
But it was more
out of that, where
it's like, oh my goodness,
this just happened.
How am I going to
get out of this?
You know what?
I'm not going through all this
stuff for nothing, no way.
And then the universe,
god, whatever, said, OK.
And so from dreaming big, what's
interesting about dreaming big,
even that seemed crazy
when I said well,
my mission now is to
help people bounce back
from difficult times.
I said that, I made
that statement,
but I didn't know
what that meant.
I didn't know what
that would look like.
I didn't know where
it would take me.
It wasn't like I said
this and I'm like,
oh, and I know exactly
how I'm going to do it
and the next week everyone's
going to bounce back
and it's all done and
I'll have my book written.
I just said that.
It was, sometimes you
need to set a goal
or create that dream.
You don't need to know the how.
Just first get the
dream together.
And what I always say
is, pick that dream.
So if you're having
financial problems,
how much money would you like
to make in the next year?
And you come up with
an amount in your mind.
And what I always say is this.
Once you've picked
that amount, you
have an amount picked in
your mind, times it by 10.
And everyone's, oh, my goodness!
I'm going to make
a million dollars?
You know, that kind of thing.
And it's like yeah,
and why didn't you
pick that amount to begin with?
And it's because we have
difficulty dreaming big.
And often, we are the ones
that are our own obstacles
in our own way.
And whatever your
dreams are, when
you're able to create
your big dreams,
once you've decided on
that, then the opportunities
and the ideas start
coming to you.
So if your goal
was $100,000, you
would then have ideas
and opportunities
that are $100,000 worth.
If you have a goal
of a million dollars,
you will have ideas
and opportunities
that come to you that
are a million dollars.
Because your brain is
thinking at a different level.
When I decided I wanted to make
my first million, I remember,
this is how I was
going to do it.
This isn't how it
happened, but I
started coming up with
ideas, which I would never
have come up with if my goal
was $50,000 or $100,000.
So I wanted to make
my first million.
I said, I know how
I'm going to do it.
Because I didn't know any
other way, by the way.
And by the way,
there's a million ways
to make a million
dollars, if not more.
That's what I always say.
And my goal was, I'm going
to write a bestseller book
and I'm going to sell
a million copies.
And when you have a
publisher, you usually
get about $1 a book.
So that's how I'm going
to make a million dollars.
So I'm going to
write my first book.
Is that how I made
my first million?
No.
[LAUGHS]
But at least I had an
idea and it started
making me think in that way.
Yes, I wrote a bestseller.
No, I didn't make a
million dollars that way.
But I came up with all
different other ideas.
And so many things just started
arriving and landing in my lap,
because my mind now
was starting to look
for things in that area.
So you become, once you
have that really big goal,
then you become more
aware, more alert.
Once you're looking
out that window,
you're seeing what
you're looking for,
which is how to make
a million dollars,
how to find my soulmate, how
to have the dream career.
All those things all of a
sudden start showing up for you.
It's when you get stuck
in that negative space
that you don't see
the opportunities.
You're in this dark fog,
you're in that tunnel.
There could be a million
doors of opportunities
all around you.
You will never see them.
You will never see them,
because you're stuck.
Right?
I always say when
you are stuck, it's
like you are staring
at a closed door.
Not only is it closed,
but it's locked.
And you're not going anywhere.
And what I mean by that, is
anytime you're complaining,
anytime you are feeling
sorry for yourself,
anytime you're saying,
why is this happening,
I can't believe this is
happening, this isn't fair,
and all that resentment and
anger around your situation,
it's hard to move past that and
actually bounce back quickly,
and bounce back big.
It's really difficult.
Because you're just busy
staring at this closed door.
Meanwhile, there are all these
open doors all around you,
but you don't see
them, because I'm
too busy staring at
this closed door that's
right in front of your face.
And so what I say is, step
away from that closed door.
Stop focusing on all the
negative and all the things
that you're not happy about.
And start focusing
on what you want
and what you want to
create into your life,
like what you want to
bring into your life.
Focus on the positive.
And as soon as you start
focusing on the positive
and what you want to create
and dream big, all of a sudden
you step away and
you look around
and you say, oh my goodness,
where were all these open doors
before?
You know what?
They were they're
all along, right?
It's what you look for
is what you will find.
And if you're
constantly negative,
you'll find more negativity.
If you're constantly
positive, you
will always find all the
positive things all around you.
So it's one of those things that
once you start becoming aware
what's in there and what's going
on and be able to shift that,
your entire life will shift.
You know, I talk
about reprogramming
your conscious mind.
And I usually break it
down into three steps.
And the first one is
reprogram your conscious mind.
And what your conscious mind
is, is all about your thoughts
and what you're thinking.
Now I honest, for me personally,
many, many years ago,
I used to be the biggest
drama queen on the planet.
Now you imagine the
most negative person
you know who's the biggest
drama queen on the planet,
just think of that person.
Times that by
1,000, that was me.
OK?
I can promise you, that's
how bad I used to be.
Until one day I got a big aha.
And I was at an event and
they were talking about this.
And I walked out of
there with a light bulb
on the top of my head,
realizing oh my goodness,
are you kidding me.
I've been creating my own
suffering all this time?
I just couldn't believe it.
And the exciting part was,
well, that's a good thing,
because that means
I can change it.
I'm no longer a victim.
And so when I say reprogram
your conscious mind,
I'm talking about your thoughts
and what you're thinking.
So let me explain.
The way it works is this.
Is that when something negative
is happening around you,
so it's let's say,
outside of you,
and it could be in my case,
I was $124,000 in debt,
my relationship was breaking
up, my ex was an alcoholic,
I had serious health issues,
we were losing our home.
All these things
were happening to me.
were happening to me
and I was feeling really sad,
depressed, angry, resentful,
all those negative feelings.
And so if somebody would
have asked me and said, well,
why are you feeling
all those feelings?
Why are you feeling sad?
Why are you feeling angry?
Why are you feeling resentful?
What is all this negativity?
I'm saying, why?
Because I'm losing my home,
$124,000 in debt, my ex,
at the time, he wasn't
my ex, is an alcoholic, I
have serious health challenge.
Of course I'm feeling this way.
That's why I feel this way.
But you know what?
That's not true.
So you have something outside
of you that's happening.
Financial,
relationship, whatever,
and you feel something.
You assume that the
reason you feel this way
is because of that.
But that isn't true.
Something happens
between that and this.
Something here happens.
And what happens is, you
have a thought about what's
happening in your life.
That thought is causing
you to feel the way you do.
So you are causing your
own pain and suffering.
It's not out there.
And the reason that's
true, is because you
can have 10 people going
through the exact same situation
and have 10 different reactions.
Right?
And so if that's the case,
then what's the difference?
It's what you think.
So whenever you're going through
a difficult time in your life
and you're not feeling good,
you have to ask yourself,
OK, obviously
something's happening
and things happen in life
and we have to deal with it
and get through it, get back
up, move forward, handle it.
How quickly you do that is this.
And so what happens
is, you have to ask
yourself that question
in those situations
when you don't feel good.
And the question is this.
What am I thinking
about right now
that's making me feel this way?
And the stories
we tell ourselves.
You wouldn't even talk
to your, you know,
like your worst enemy the
way we talk to ourselves.
And of course, and
you'll, do that exercise.
I mean, to this day,
I still do that.
If I feel like I'm getting
upset or stressed or anything,
I will ask myself.
I say, wow, I do not feel good.
I need to stop for a second.
What is going on right now?
What am I thinking right now?
And then I go over the story
I've been telling myself.
And I realize, oh,
well that makes sense.
Now let's change the story.
Right?
Because often, it's just a
story and your interpretation
of what's going on.
Well, what if you could actually
change that interpretation
to something positive?
Because in the end, think
about, think about this.
Think about something
that happened to you
in the past that was negative.
And then fast forward two years,
five years, and you look back
and you most of the
time you would say,
that was the best thing
that ever happened to me.
Could have been a
breakup, and then
you later met your
real soulmate.
In my case, all those
things happened, and today,
look at what I'm doing.
Like if somebody gave me
a crystal ball and said,
OK, Sonia, I know
you're depressed
and crying and playing the
victim and all that, OK.
Look at this, look
at this crystal ball.
Look at your life of how it's
going to be in the future.
If I looked at that,
I would have said,
I don't know whose life that is,
but there's no way it's mine,
because I have no idea
how that's even possible.
So you never know.
You have to trust and
you have to believe,
and you move forward.
But I'm telling you, right here,
this is where it all begins.
By reprogramming
your conscious mind.
Conscious mind
means your thoughts.
You can easily become aware
of what you're thinking.
As soon as you do
that and you're
able to shift it and turn it
into a positive story or a more
positive story, you feel better.
Because obviously,
your thoughts are
what's causing you to
feel what you're feeling.
>> So step one, conscious mind.
Interrupt those thoughts,
question those thoughts,
try to do some discovery
around why do I,
why am I feeling
bad about this and
can I change those thoughts?
So that makes sense.
I can understand that.
Step two, step three.
>> Right.
So step two is reprogram
your subconscious mind.
So what that means is, this
is a lot harder by the way.
You can do it, it's just
harder than, the other one
is like, what am I
thinking about right now
that's making me feel this way.
Pretty simple.
Step two, subconscious,
reprogram your subconscious
mind, those are your
limiting beliefs.
What you believe is
what you will manifest.
Right?
And so you have to figure
out that area of your life
that isn't working, what are
your beliefs around that area?
Because those beliefs will
determine how successful you
are in that area of your life.
And it's really interesting,
because sometimes we
have beliefs and we don't even
know we have those beliefs.
And that's why that's step one
is important, because once you
start becoming aware
of your thoughts,
then you start recognizing
what you're telling yourself.
What you're telling yourself
is so powerful in determining
what action you take,
determining of what direction
you will go in your life.
And so your limiting
beliefs are what
really drive you in every way
without you even realizing it.
The good news is,
that you can uncover
what your limiting beliefs are.
And once you, in that
area that's not working,
and once you do, then
you just shift them
to positive empowering
beliefs instead.
And then once you've done that,
everything shifts in that area.
But until you do
that, it'll be very
difficult to truly transform
that area of your life.
You might say, I want
to meet my soul mate.
And then you meet
your soul mate,
but then you break
up three months later
and then you're looking
for your soul mate again.
And then you meet your
soul mate six months later,
and then you break up, and
there are limiting beliefs
around that area of your
life around relationships.
Or money's a big
one for many people.
And so if you're finding you're
having a lot of difficulty
making ends meet or you're not
reaching your financial goals
and no matter how hard you
try, how harder you work,
no matter what you do,
it's still not happening,
or sometimes it happens
and then you lose it
and it happens and
you lose it, you
need to analyze and figure
out what your beliefs are
around the area of money.
That's a really huge one.
So what people are
normally looking
for when it comes
to making money,
is all different kinds
of opportunities.
I'm going to get a better job.
I'm going to start
a new business.
I'm going to do this.
And those are all good things.
But if you haven't shifted your
limiting beliefs around money,
you will always be struggling
around money, no matter what.
So the good news is,
all you have to do
is uncover what your
limiting beliefs are.
So I'm going to give
you some examples
around what limiting beliefs
are around money, for instance.
I'll never be a millionaire.
Rich people are jerks.
I'm too old to be rich.
I'm not smart enough to be rich.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
All these, whatever
your beliefs are.
And often, by the way,
where these limiting beliefs
come from, they come from our
childhood, our experiences.
It comes over, it's like a
programming over the years.
And the stories we're telling
ourselves about the different
experiences that we have.
Course, our parents
are our biggest ones.
Like I grew up with you
have to save your money.
You have to save your money.
You can't have that.
We have no money.
We're poor.
All those things.
And I, my parents were
immigrants from Italy.
And so I'm first
generation Canadian.
And so they came with
like $10 in their pocket.
There was so much scarcity.
A lot of love, but
a lot of scarcity.
And so I had to deprogram
all that over time
once I started
understanding all of this.
And what's interesting
about limiting beliefs,
is that you will start
uncovering them all the time.
Even like for me,
financially, I really
figured out what all my
limiting beliefs were.
And then eventually, I realized
I still had them years later
after I was already successful.
And I'd love to
give you an example.
This is an extreme
example, but just
to give you an idea of how
powerful limiting beliefs are.
I had bounced back,
and that was great.
And my business was booming
and I was doing really well.
And I was completely out of
debt and had a nice sum of money
in my account.
And I was making six figures.
And all my colleagues
and friends
were making seven figures.
And my goal was to make seven
figures, make my first million.
And I tried and tried and I
didn't know what else to do.
It just wasn't happening.
Now I couldn't work
more hours, because I
was working so many hours.
And I was doing what
everyone else was doing
and why is it working
for them and not me?
And I remember
thinking about that
once when I was at a red light.
I was driving and I had
my little dog next to me.
We're on our way
to the dog park.
And I was stopped at a red
light and for some reason
I'm thinking about this.
And I'm thinking, I
just don't understand.
I don't know what else to do.
How do I get to seven figures?
How does everyone else do it?
I'm doing exactly what they're
doing, it's not working,
I don't understand.
And then it got quiet in my
head for like five seconds.
And then the next
thought was this.
Yeah, but Sonia,
remember when you
used to work in the
fitness industry
and you used to
oversee five clubs
and there were
like 300 employees.
Do you remember how
stressful it was for you
to have so many employees?
You're going to have to have
so many employees in order
to make seven figures.
Do you remember
how miserable you
were when you were doing that?
People not showing
up for their shifts.
You have to let people go.
They start crying, you have to
deal with all that situation.
You don't want to
make seven figures.
That story popped into my head.
And I just remember, and I think
it's because I became aware
of my thoughts.
But this one was so deep that I
never noticed this one until I
was stopped at this red light.
And I go, did I just really
just say that to myself?
That's a limiting belief.
I had a limiting belief that
in order to make seven figures,
I'd have to have a big team.
And if I had a big team, I
would be really miserable.
Because you know what?
I was miserable in the past.
And that isn't true.
I know people, my colleagues who
have really small teams making
multiple seven figures.
So it wasn't even true.
It was a limiting belief
that I didn't even
realize I had until
I became aware of it.
So I took it from
the subconscious
and brought it to the conscious.
And then I laughed at myself
and I said, oh my goodness,
that's it.
I have been self-sabotaging
myself all along.
Because I really didn't
want that, because I knew
it would make me miserable.
When it wasn't even true.
So I thought, OK, well,
now my new belief is this.
I am going to make seven
figures, multiple seven
figures, if possible,
that's ideal,
and I'm going to do
it with a small team
and it's going to
be my dream team.
And this dream team are
going to be super evolved,
inspirational, really
behind the mission,
and we will all love
each other and we're
going to work together and
make this world a better place.
Now that feels good.
And I continued driving.
And shortly after
that, everything
shifted in the business.
>> So that process for shifting
that limiting belief system
became from a subconscious
to a conscious process.
Powerful.
What if people's subconscious
doesn't bubble up
to their conscious mind?
Are there other processes
that really can help people
break through limiting beliefs?
Because I know there's
things like hypnotherapy
or there might be
things like tapping
or any sort of ways to
get through emotional.
Because that's the
first criticism
people get about that.
And I'm glad you said money
doesn't grow on trees.
That was mine.
I remember 2003, Tony
Robbins seminar, I'm like,
I want to do something I love.
My job, I enjoy it,
but I want to make
a difference in the world.
I want to do this.
And I realized I had this
limiting belief that money
doesn't grow on trees.
You got to go out there.
And that was a fascinating
thing to break through.
Because once you do, then
the opportunities come.
So I'm here nodding
in agreement.
But yes, the main
question is, people
are critical of shifting beliefs
because they might not all
come to the surface.
And so they're still there.
Or if they're there,
they might not
know how to fully
break through them.
How can they do that?
>> So what's interesting is
the more you do this work,
the easier they come up for you.
So that came up for me
while I was driving.
And another exercise,
a really great exercise
would be actually pick
that area of your life
that isn't working.
So let's say financial.
And then just write
out the story.
Write out your story.
Just hand write the story of
what's going on in that area.
I mean, I do journaling
every single morning.
I start off my day
journaling and I just
write and write and write and
write and write and write.
So you tell your story.
It's like, I can't believe
that I'm six figures in debt.
How did this happen?
Whatever the story is.
And I'm never going to make
any, that kind of money.
How am I ever going
to get out of debt?
I'm going to end up
losing everything.
I'm going to, and whatever.
Just write and
write and don't edit
or anything, just free flow
and write and write and write
and tell your story.
And keep on writing until
you just can't write anymore
around that.
Just put it, whatever's in your
head, just put it on paper.
This is your truth
around that area.
And then what I want you
to do is then go back,
and then read it.
And then read it again.
And then read it again,
and then read it again.
And by the time you read
it the fifth or sixth time,
you're going to start
noticing the story.
A, how negative it is.
And B, ask yourself
that question.
Is like, is this really
true or is this the story
I've been telling myself?
And that's what I did.
I did that whole process
just sitting in the car.
Is that true?
I knew immediately
that wasn't true.
I just couldn't believe I was
telling myself that story.
The problem is,
we don't know what
the story is that we're
telling ourselves that are
these limiting beliefs.
But by writing it
out, that's when
you know you're telling
your story to yourself.
And so what's going on in here,
you're putting it on paper.
Usually what's going on in
here, we don't pay attention to.
We believe that's the truth.
That's not the truth.
They're just thoughts.
And so once you've
done that, you
can become aware of
what you tell yourself.
And then just read it
and go, is this all true.
And remember, what is truth.
Truth are facts.
So pick out all the facts.
Like even if like you broke
up with your girlfriend,
your boyfriend, your
husband, your wife and you
have this horrible breakup
and a horrible experience
and that's the area that's
not working for you today,
you're trying to meet your soul
mate, but you don't know why.
Well, write that story down.
And you'll be shocked at what
you'll notice when you start
reading how negative it was.
And I've been in that place in
the past, and it's like, oh,
he said he loved me,
but he never did.
Oh my god.
And it's the whole
drama around it.
And you write it all out and
he did this and da-da-da.
But he said he loved me, and I
dedicated 10 years of my life
and what a waste of time.
Like the stuff we
tell ourselves.
Write it all out.
And then just look at
it and just say, OK, now
what's really true
in this story.
Not your interpretation of what
happened, what's really true.
And it's like we went
out and we broke up.
And that's it.
Most of the rest of the stuff,
unless we went on vacation,
we went on vacation.
Those are facts.
But everything else
is a story of what,
because I can guarantee you,
if he wrote that same story,
it'd be a totally different
story, like we were not even
together.
Like we were different people.
And so what's important is to be
able to write it down and write
out your story.
And once you start reading it,
you'll start picking up like,
have I really been
believing this.
And then once you
pick out what that is,
you can easily shift it into
positive, empowering belief.
So for money, for instance, I
always say this to this day,
and it's kind of an ongoing
joke with all my friends
and family, because I
do this all the time.
I love to say,
money flows easily,
freely and from everywhere.
Money flows easily, freely
and from everywhere.
And I have it on a
poster in my office.
I will find a nickel on the
ground and I will pick it up
and I will be,
money flows easily,
freely and from everywhere.
And any time, like I
see it all the time,
and it's, and it really does.
It's really crazy.
And so you start reprogramming
your subconscious mind.
Instead of thinking money
doesn't grow on trees,
I'll never be a millionaire,
only other people,
other people are the ones
that become rich, not me.
Well, why not you?
Why not you?
Ask yourself that question.
All kinds of stuff
is going to come up.
Why not you?
Well, because I'm
not smart enough.
OK, there's another
limiting belief.
There are a lot of
people that are not
smart that are billionaires.
And so it's important
to really uncover
those limiting beliefs,
and trying to figure out
what is it that has been
stopping me from moving forward
in that area of my life.
It's very powerful.
I'm telling you right
now, once you uncover
what your limiting beliefs
are around that area that's
not working in your life,
everything will shift.
You just need to turn it into
positive, empowering beliefs
instead.
But you can't do that until
you uncover what they are.
>> I love it.
High five.
I think it's awesome.
And to be honest, I think I can
resonate so deeply with this
because my story was a disaster.
My dad was totally unwell, had
to sell all of his business,
couldn't work.
I mean, our family were
at a big crossroads.
And then we quit our jobs
and we started researching
about nutrition and health.
And then that became the biggest
and best thing we've ever done.
Last 10 years, we
brought Food Matters
to the world, Hungry
for Change, FMTV,
which is this Netflix
for health and wellness,
and we've helped
millions of people
around the world
shift their health
and their philosophies around
food and nutrition and health,
because of what was the worst
thing ever in our family.
But if we believed
that we're not
up filmmakers, we didn't
go to film school,
we had no idea
how to do this, we
wouldn't have been the
first film on Netflix
that really spoke about
health and wellness.
So I'm with you, sister.
And I think that that
awareness comes from the story.
And I interviewed a
gentleman recently
who had a horrible
story as well.
He was in a really bad car
accident and he nearly died.
And he went around with
a victim mentality.
I want to speak to victim
mentality here for a minute,
because I think it
dovetails with your work,
and also with belief systems.
And he said, I nearly died.
And what happened
you face, people
would say, because he had
a really big facial scar.
And he said, well, I nearly
died in a car accident.
But it was years later, after
doing all this work on Buddhism
and meditation and
self-awareness,
he was at a workshop and this
person said, hang on a second.
There was a car accident.
Everything else you
added is your story.
Like you said, There's facts,
and then there's your story.
And that story either paints
you as the victor or the victim.
And he said, I nearly
died in a car accident.
No, you're not nearly dead,
you're not nearly pregnant.
[LAUGHS]
You're either pregnant
or you're dead
or you're alive,
right, or not pregnant.
And so he was like, wow, there
was a breakthrough for him.
It's like, there was a
car accident, that was it.
It wasn't good or bad, it
was just, it was what it was.
I'm alive, I'm OK now.
I'm really.
So how can people
be aware of the fact
of whether they're
painting themselves
into a victim mentality?
And is this the third
step that you alluded to?
No, OK.
Well.
>> We could talk about that.
>> OK.
Let's talk about the
victim mentality thing
and then we can go to the
third step thereafter.
>> The victim mentality is
really all about the story
you're telling yourself, I
mean, that's the bottom line.
Is, like I always say,
it's OK to feel bad when
something bad is happening.
But if it's 20 years later,
then that's not a good thing
and you're doing this wrong.
OK?
It's OK to feel bad when
something bad's happening.
You can actually allow yourself
to be a victim, because you're
doing it consciously now.
It's like, you know what?
I just broke up
with my boyfriend,
I'm really, really
sad right now.
And you don't have to
buck up and be strong
and I'm going to, I
could do this, la-la-la.
You know what?
My heart is ripped
open, I'm broken open.
I'm going to cry
right now and allow
myself to play the victim.
You're like giving
yourself permission
to feel what you're feeling.
What's amazing
with doing that, is
that you're allowing yourself
to release what, you're human.
Of course you're going to have
times when you want to cry
and you want to let it out.
You don't always
have to be strong,
and you don't always
have to be perfect.
So you allow yourself
to release it.
And just that
release immediately
makes you feel better.
And so I actually tell people,
listen, even though all that
happened, after that and more
recently, my mom passed away.
And that honestly,
everything that happened,
this is the ironic part.
Everything is relative,
because all that.
I lost my home due
to foreclosure,
I was $124,000 in debt,
my ex was an alcoholic,
relationship broke up, I had
serious blood clot health
issues.
Oh my god, that's the worst
thing that ever happened.
Until my mom got cancer
and was really sick
and I watched her deteriorate
in front of my eyes
and die in front of me and I
watch her take her last breath.
All of a sudden, that
stuff, that's a joke.
So it's all relative.
And so the reason I'm mentioning
that is that it just occurred
to me, especially when
my mom passed away,
is what's really
important in life,
and how we put so much
emphasis on all these things
until something
really big happens.
And all of a sudden,
that's not important.
I'm telling you, when
my mom was hospitalized.
Before she passed away, she
was hospitalized for six weeks.
Before that, I was
tired, exhausted
with work and all that.
I needed to take time
off, but I couldn't,
because I'm way too busy.
I've got too much
stuff going on.
Like, I just can't
take time off.
Soon as my mom was hospitalized,
I all of a sudden I'm
out for over six weeks.
Where did that come from?
It's because I got my
priorities straight.
And the reason I'm saying
that, is that in the end,
yes, there'll be times that
you will play the victim,
but that's not
necessarily a bad thing.
Because sometimes
things really do
happen that make you feel bad.
And don't let
anyone ever tell you
that you shouldn't feel bad.
No one should be telling you
how you should feel any time.
You can bounce
back, and you will.
It's how quickly you'll do it.
But it's OK to feel
bad in that moment.
And so I don't know
how comfortable I feel,
like even that
whole word, victim.
Like, it's not
victim, it's life.
Life is life and things happen.
Good things happen,
bad things happen.
My mom used to always say this.
Sonia, life is like a staircase.
Sometimes you go up and
sometimes you go down.
And when you go
down and you don't
feel good, allow it, release
it, feel it at a deep level.
I did that when my
mom was hospitalized.
Seriously, I was crying
every day in the hospital.
I didn't care where I was.
I was waiting for the elevator
in the hospital, I was crying.
I was in the room, I was crying.
The nurse and doctor
there, I was crying.
I never apologized ever.
Why?
Because that's what I
felt. My mom's dying.
So I feel sad and I'm going
to cry, and I'll be OK.
I'll be OK.
But this is how
I feel right now.
And the good news is,
I had the tools to be
able to bounce back after that.
But I think playing
the victim to me really
means like it's 20 years later
and you're still complaining
about something that
happened 20 years ago
and you're just
not letting it go.
And that is actually a
huge part, by the way,
of step number three.
Do you want to know what
step number three is?
>> Of course.
>> And I love breaking
it into three steps,
just so it's so much
easier to grasp.
Step number three is elevating
your vibrational frequency
to a state of love,
peace, joy and gratitude.
Once you get yourself to a
state of love, peace, joy
and gratitude, everything
will shift in your life.
Everything.
Now whether you believe
in the Law of Attraction
or you don't, it
doesn't really matter.
Think about it.
If you get yourself to a
state of love, peace, joy
and gratitude, how
would you feel?
How would you like your life?
It would be great.
Doesn't matter what you believe.
But I'm telling you,
once you get yourself
to a state of love,
peace, joy and gratitude,
which is the highest vibrational
frequency, especially love
and peace, really
powerful, and you
do the work to be
able to get to that,
everything will be
OK in your life,
even when something quote
unquote, bad, happens.
And so you'll start attracting
more positive people, things,
situations in your life.
Why?
Because that's who you're being.
You're being love,
peace, joy and gratitude.
That is what you will
attract back into your life.
When you're being negative,
angry, resentful, all that,
you're going to
attract more of that.
Why?
Because that's what you're
focusing on and that's what
you're going to see.
Remember all those open doors?
They're not there.
When you're in love, peace,
joy and gratitude, you're like,
I've never seen so
many open doors.
I don't even know which
one to go through, wow!
And so how do you get to a
state of love, peace, joy
and gratitude is the number one
question people always ask me.
And there's many ways.
There are many ways
that you can do it.
And one of the things,
I'm going to give you
a few ways of doing it.
And probably all these
things you should do.
Let go of the negative past.
Because when you're holding
onto the negative past,
the negative things that
happened to you in the past,
not only are you bringing
it into your present,
but you're affecting
your future.
Because every decision you
make, how you see things,
your perception, you're holding
onto something from the past,
so it's very negative.
And so if you don't let
go of the negative past,
it will be difficult
to transform
your life going forward.
And a lot of people say,
well, how do we do that?
Well, one great way is to think
of the past as no longer real.
Because the reality is,
the past doesn't exist.
And a lot of people argue that.
And it doesn't exist.
Where does it exist?
Show it to me.
Where does it,
where does it exist?
Is it this?
It doesn't exist.
The only place it exists
is this thing again!
It doesn't exist.
And so the past, we're keeping
the past alive by our thoughts.
So the past are
really just thoughts.
They don't exist.
Yes, it happened, but it's
like reading a history book.
World War I happened,
World War II happened,
Sonia's ex was an
alcoholic and it was
a miserable time in her life.
And so the past doesn't really
exist when you really think
about it, except as a thought.
So if you could shift that
thought, you can let it go.
Hold on to those positive
experiences over time.
The crazy part is this.
Is that the future
doesn't exist either.
So the future is also a thought.
Think about it.
When you're thinking about
the future, you're thinking.
It's not real.
That doesn't mean you don't
think about the future,
you don't plan for the future.
Of course, you do.
But think about it.
The future doesn't exist either.
And I want you to
know that anytime
you're feeling stressed
or angry or worried,
chances are you were either,
all those negative feelings,
you're either focusing on
what happened in the past
or you're worrying about
what's going on in the future.
You're not in the present.
So as soon as you
become aware of that,
that immediately makes
everything better.
Because as soon as
you bring yourself
into this present moment,
which is my point here,
is that the past doesn't exist,
the future doesn't exist,
the only thing that exists
is this moment right now.
This conversation
we're having right
now is all that exists
in this exact moment.
That doesn't mean you
don't plan for the future.
Because remember, while you're
planning, and once it arrives,
it's not the future anymore,
it's the present again.
This is all there is.
And so the reason
I'm mentioning that,
is as soon as you let
go of the past, which
is all negative energy,
then you can get yourself
to that state of love,
peace, joy and gratitude,
because it's not
holding you back.
Forgiveness is another thing.
But of course, forgiveness has
everything to do with your past
again.
It's based on something
that happened to you,
something someone did
to you, or sometimes
you need to forgive
yourself for what you did.
None of us are perfect.
We've all done things that
we're not happy about,
because we're human.
And so to forgive yourself.
And so forgiveness is key too.
And when we forgive,
it's really important
to realize that when
you're forgiving,
you're not condoning
what somebody did to you.
All you're doing is this.
Is you're letting go
of that negativity.
You are doing it for yourself.
There's this
expression, and I can't
remember who the
author was, but not
forgiving is like
drinking rat poison
and expecting the rat to die.
Think about it.
The only person dying
is us holding on to it.
And so forgiveness is
key, because you're
doing it for yourself.
It's not for them.
And forgiveness can
happen without even
speaking to the person.
You can write a letter
and never send it.
In here you could forgive them.
Let it go.
It's for you, because
you're holding
onto all that negativity.
And let's face it.
That person's probably not
even thinking about you.
And here, they're holding on
to this mental real estate
that you're allowing them
to have in your mind.
They're taking on this
mental, this prime real estate
in our minds.
And they're just out
doing their own thing.
Just let it go.
It's the past,
doesn't exist anymore.
People are doing the best they
can with the tools they have.
And they make
mistakes around that.
And sometimes they grow and
learn and become evolved great
people, and
sometimes they don't.
And that's their journey,
that's not yours.
You can choose that
for yourself and be
able to choose your
evolved awakened state
and allow yourself to forgive.
Forgiveness is important,
because once you forgive,
you're alleviating
all that negativity
and you're being expansive.
You're expanding yourself.
And so forgiveness is important.
The other thing is meditation.
And so meditation
is really important,
because it quiets your mind.
It quiets your mind.
It allows you to connect
to your higher self,
to source, whatever
you believe in.
And once you connect
your higher self,
you're able to get the messages
that are being sent to you.
When you're in that
dark, resentful, angry,
you won't forgive, you're
focusing on the past,
all that negative
stuff, it's negative.
You're not in a state of love.
You're not in a state of
peace, that's for sure.
You're not happy, so you're
not in a state of joy.
And so you're definitely
not in gratitude,
because you're focusing on
all the negative things.
So yeah, it's hard.
It's hard to attract
positive things
if that's what you're thinking.
So do everything you can to get
yourself to that state of love,
peace, joy and gratitude.
Definitely let go of the
past, definitely forgive,
and do whatever allows
you to feel good.
Meditation is a great way.
Walking in nature.
Go hiking, go to the park,
spend time with a journal
is really great.
But once you get
yourself to that state,
so imagine, you've reprogrammed
your conscious mind.
So your thoughts now, you're
becoming aware of them.
And you realize, and you're
shifting what you're thinking.
You're reprogramming
your subconscious mind.
You've let go of all
those limiting beliefs
and turned them into
positive, empowering beliefs,
and you're in a state of love,
please, joy and gratitude.
How can your life
not be amazing?
So that's all you have to do
to live your greatest life
and bounce back.
That's why I say, you can
bounce back instantly.
All you have to do is change
what you're telling yourself,
and you immediately feel better.
Now down the road, it will
take maybe a little bit
longer to get to all your
big dreams and goals.
But you can feel good right now.
You have a choice.
It's in your control.
>> Beautiful.
So in bouncing back,
I've certainly in my life
gone through a lot
of interesting times,
and then seen them in
retrospect and learned from it
and grown from it and done
work on limiting belief systems
and helped to raise
my vibrational energy,
so I can resonate
with everything
you're talking about.
And the more that
I do that, the more
I'm able to close the gap
from an issue or a problem
or a stress to peace,
love, gratitude and joy.
Because I'm like, oh,
I've been here before.
I know that something
great's about to happen out
of this experience, and I'm
being gifted this experience
from the divine for some
reason that I'm yet unaware of,
but I know it's
going to be perfect.
And that's a belief
system I've adopted.
In fact, my belief
system is actually
everything is absolutely
always unfolding perfectly.
That was taught
to me by somebody,
it was handed to
them by somebody.
And I'm like, I'm
taking that, I love it.
So it's not everything
happens for a reason.
There is perfection
in everything.
And in that process of years
and years of working with that,
life is like grace is
joy and a blessing,
even when times are tough and
even when times are amazing.
So do you think that for people,
the speed at which they're
able to close the
gap on this has
to do with the types
of belief systems
they've been able to
adopt, how well they've
been able to integrate
that into their lives?
And can you offer
hope to people that
might be feeling stuck that
there is a pathway to being
able to handle that?
I mean, can you answer
that in some way?
>> Yes, absolutely.
So what's interesting is
it sounds like it's really
like hard work.
It sounds like it's hard
work to bounce back,
and it really isn't.
It really isn't.
Anyone can really
do this, anyone.
And it is a willingness
to learn it.
The quickest way to
feel good instantly when
something major is happening,
is to stop resisting
what's going on in your life.
I just want to really
mention that, because that's
really important.
Often, a lot of our suffering
comes from resistance.
We're saying, this
shouldn't be happening.
I can't believe
this is happening.
What am I going to do?
And as soon as you
surrender to what I say,
surrender to what
is, you are releasing
all that negative energy.
And when I say surrender,
I want to be clear.
I'm not talking about giving up.
But let's face it, whatever's
happening is happening.
You can say it shouldn't,
you can resist all you want,
it's happening.
So accept it exactly
the way it is, exactly
the way it isn't,
it's just happening.
When you become, like
even when I was in debt,
oh, my goodness, I'm
$124,000 in debt.
Or, I'm $124,000 in debt.
It's a fact.
It is the way it is.
It's different.
It's a different
energy around that.
So what's important,
is to understand
that anyone can stop
resisting once you
realize you're resisting.
And by accepting it, you're able
to step back and go, OK, often
things are out of our control,
so why are we freaking out.
Out of our control.
Is like getting
angry, sad, resentful,
is that going to change
your situation right now
or is it just making
you feel really bad?
So if something, you're
in a car accident,
for instance, something,
somebody fender bender
and you're getting really mad.
Really?
Why are you getting mad?
Is that going to make
the accident not happen?
Are you going to go back in
time and all of a sudden you
don't have an accident?
No, it's still an accident.
It is the way it is.
Accept it.
Let it go and deal with it.
When you're coming from that
energy of it is the way it is,
because it is the way it
is, now let's move forward
and let's try to fix
this problem now.
What do I need to do?
Then those open doors
then start showing up.
And it's quite interesting.
I recently got a
speeding ticket.
And I recently got my dream car.
And I was driving, and honestly,
I was actually quite shocked
that it took that long
to get a speeding ticket.
That's all I have to say.
Anyway, and that's the thought
I had when he stopped me.
So he stopped me and
I'm like, oh boy, I
was going 138 kilometers an
hour in 100 kilometer an hour
on the highway.
And honestly, it wasn't
done intentionally.
It just, I looked down
and I looked there,
there's the police officer.
I looked up, the thing
was, oh, I'm speeding.
Didn't even realize.
Anyway, he stops me.
And you know, it takes
a while, and they check.
I'm sitting there, and
I'm like, are you upset?
No.
Do you deserve this ticket?
Absolutely.
I so deserve this ticket.
I can't believe it took
this long for me to get one.
It's just because, what's
the point of getting upset?
What's the point?
Yes, it's going to cost money.
Yes, it's going to
have demerit points.
affect my insurance.
But all of that I can
change in that moment.
And this is what, the best part.
This is a perfect example.
So when the police officer came
and I rolled down my window
and then I have already have
my paperwork, insurance,
my driver's license,
and he looks down
and I go, here you go,
I know I was speeding.
I just admitted it.
Like who does that?
Nobody does that.
I know I was
speeding, here you go.
And he's like, what?
I said, I know I was speeding.
He was like, oh, OK.
And he goes, I'll be back.
And I'm like, OK.
That was it.
And of course, at the back of
my mind I was thinking, well,
should I have said, oh,
I'm sorry officer, and all
the whole story in my head.
I go, no, that's
all I needed to say.
I was speeding, and
basically, I deserve this.
And then he goes
back to the car.
He comes back five minutes
later and he goes, OK,
just to let you know, I reduced
it like you were going 115.
So no demerit points.
And it's like $60
ticket, here you go.
I'm like, thank you, officer,
I really appreciate it.
And I took off.
And I didn't, I wasn't
upset, I wasn't angry,
there was no negativity.
And if it were many years
before, I'd probably
be crying, oh no, officer, oh,
my goodness, I can't believe,
I'm so sorry.
And oh, now I'm
going to lose points.
And oh my god, my
insurance, and oh, how much
is this ticket going to be?
Like, all this
negativity and who
knows how it would
have turned out.
One, I would have
definitely felt worse.
So the reason I'm
saying that, is
that's the easiest
way to really bounce
back immediately from
a being standpoint,
is just stop resisting
what's going on in your life.
Sometimes we have
five different things,
and we feel like
everything's falling apart.
And so a great way
to stop resisting,
is just ask yourself
this question.
What problems do I have right
now right in this moment?
As you're watching
this, listening
to this, what problems
do you have right now?
Like this second.
Now unless a bear is
attacking you right now,
which is a problem, you wouldn't
be watching this right now.
You don't have any
problems right now.
And the reason I'm saying that,
is because you bring yourself
into the present.
And once you do that, then
just enjoy life right now.
Can you just let it go?
Just temporarily.
10 minutes, 10 hours, whatever.
Why don't you just enjoy
this moment right now
and allow yourself
to enjoy life?
You could worry about
your problems later.
And you ask that question.
What problems do I
have right this second?
Because what happens
is, this mind
is going on and on
and on and on and on,
and oh my god, I can't
believe that happened,
oh my goodness, oh, my god,
I've got all these problems.
How am I going to
get out of debt?
My so-and-so is sick, I've
got these health issues.
What am I going to do,
what am I going to do?
Future, past.
And meanwhile, what
we have right now,
the only thing that counts
right now is the present moment.
This is our life.
Everything else is a thought.
So you just bring yourself
to this present moment,
and say, OK, yes, I have
issues and problems and things
I need to resolve.
But right now, I
want to feel good,
so I'm not going
to focus on that.
I'm going to focus on
this moment right now.
What problems do I
have right this second?
None.
That's a great way to
fall asleep at night.
Sometimes at night when
you're stressed out,
you can't sleep because
you got all these problems.
Ask yourself that question.
What problems do I have right
now as I'm lying in my bed,
cozy, under the covers,
nice and quiet and dark?
I have a roof over my head.
I'm, I don't have any
problems in this moment.
I'll worry about those
problems tomorrow, whatever.
I'll resolve them tomorrow.
I'm really grateful
for my bed right now.
And we can always be
grateful for something.
Often, we focus so
much on what's not
working versus what is working.
And once you focus
on what is working,
you'll start noticing that a lot
more is working than it's not.
And it's all perception.
I've been on a lot of
humanitarian trips,
so I've seen, we've pitched
tents in poor villages
in Guatemala.
I've traveled to
a lot of places.
I've seen that.
I remember we were giving
out all these supplies
and clothes and things in a
poor village in Nicaragua.
And I'll never forget,
somehow I dropped something
and these pencils
fell to the ground.
And I never saw a bunch
of kids just attack them.
They just jumped on.
And I've never seen children
so happy to have a pencil.
I have a pencil!
They're running
around, yeah, me, too!
And I'm like, wow.
It's all relative.
And so when you've
seen all that,
it's a lot easier
to be grateful.
So when I get stuck, and
believe me, to this day,
I still get stuck
every once in a while
and I have to do the inner
work and go, here we go again.
I'm not feeling
good, what's going on
and what am I
thinking right now.
And then I, but I can shift it
immediately, because I'm human.
And so when I need
to be grateful,
I remember when
my mom passed away
and I was having a
really difficult time.
It was shortly after
she passed away.
And I was sitting in my
backyard feeling sad.
And then I thought
to myself, now
is a time to write my
"Fifty Shades of Gratitude."
And I sat down and I wrote,
and it wasn't easy to write.
To find 50 things that
you're grateful for?
It's the first 10 or
12 or 15 are easy.
I'm happy my
brother's so awesome.
I'm happy my dad was alive.
I'm happy that I can walk.
I'm happy that the sun is out.
I'm happy that I'm alive.
I'm happy that my
dog is healthy.
I'm happy I have a great team.
I'm happy.
And then after a
while, you're like, OK,
what, and then you start
running out of things.
And then I realize, I'm
really grateful that I
had the best mom ever.
She wasn't the perfect mom, but
she was the perfect mom for me.
I'm grateful that I had her for
as long as I did in my life.
Because a lot of people lose
their parents at a young age.
I am so lucky that I've
had both my parents
for such a long time.
A lot of people don't get that.
I am lucky and so
grateful that I had
a mother that loved me so much.
There isn't a person on this
planet that loved me more
than my mother.
Wow.
I'm so grateful.
I'm so lucky.
Versus like, I can't believe
my mom died and she had cancer
and she suffered, you
know, all that was going.
I just shifted it.
Do you know how quickly
I felt so much better?
Much better.
Focus on what's going
right in your life.
And there's a lot.
>> That's beautiful, Sonia.
I want to finish here, if you
can take me from the moment
that you reached that fifth
step on your stairwell
and had this epiphany
and this realization,
and then by the time
you got to the landing
you had another realization,
to where you are today.
Because I want to get
closure on this story.
You've touched on
it a little bit.
You know, I wrote a book,
I did this, I help people.
But if we had to go
back to that story
and you had to fast
forward it and tell me
what's happened in
your life, what you've
been able to achieve, the
books you're working on,
the film that's coming out,
the crystal ball life that you
looked at and thought, that
would have been impossible,
but actually became true.
Can you finish
that story for me?
I think people would
like to hear it.
>> Yes.
What is she talking about?
Yeah.
So my life today is
truly a dream life.
Is it perfect?
No.
I'm like everyone else.
Like that staircase,
sometimes you go up,
sometimes you go down.
And things happen
and life is life.
Difference is, now
when things happen,
I allow it to bounce off me.
I deal with it, I handle it,
I experience it, I feel it
and I move forward.
So it's a different
experience altogether.
So I bounce back really,
really, really quickly whenever
something happens.
But my actual life,
I was able to write
a bestseller book,
which was titled,
"The Unsinkable," same word.
We just finished filming
"The Unsinkable" movie.
Can you imagine?
Filmed a feature film.
I'm financially free.
So not only did I
get out of debt,
when you're $124,000
in debt and you
don't have a plan on how
you're going to get out of it
and you really believe
that there is no plan
and there is no way
other than bankruptcy,
and the thought did enter
my mind at one point, maybe
that is an option, but
I'm not giving up yet.
To going from being able
to, there was one day,
and I'm sorry if this
sounds like bragging,
but this actually did
happen, where in one day,
we brought in $149,000 into
my business, in one day.
I was $124,000 in
debt and I thought
there was just no way I was
ever going to get out of it.
And so today as I look
back, financially,
my financial dreams
have come true.
I never even thought
this was possible.
So if you think it's not
possible for you, it is.
And times it by 10.
OK?
First of all.
And now all my friends
and colleagues,
I get to travel the world.
I'm always traveling.
I get to help transform lives.
I get to be friends
with and colleagues
with some of the top
transformational teachers
on the planet.
Not just meet them, but
actual close friends,
where we hop on
calls and we go out
of our way to meet each
other for lunch and dinner.
Like I'm pinching myself
every day, every day.
I remember recently I was
at Bob Proctor's house.
And I remember I was
sitting next to him,
I go, how did this happen?
Like, how am I sitting
with Bob Proctor?
We have a picture of
me and Bob Proctor.
Me in Bob Proctor's office,
and I have my feet on his desk
and him going,
what are you doing?
Like that, with my
feet on his desk.
And I just remember
looking at that picture.
I go, how did that happen?
Like beyond my wildest dreams.
That young woman who
was crying on that bed
had no idea how amazing
life was about to come.
Like how amazing my
life is about to be.
And so anyone going
through difficult times
right now, if you're, you are
that person like I was then.
And you're feeling like you
want to give up, hang on.
Because the greatest,
your greatest life
is just around the corner.
Because often when people
are ready to give up,
is just when things
are about to turn.
And that's what
happened with me.
And so I truly am
living my greatest life.
I have financial freedom.
I am helping people
around the world.
I have a bestseller book.
I have a film that I funded 100%
myself, a full feature film.
I have the most amazing friends.
I have great family.
I get to travel the world.
It's truly a dream life.
I would not even have been able
to put a vision board way back
when with all these
things, because I
don't think I
would have believed
that would be even possible.
Like it was so ridiculous.
So, be ridiculous.
Be unrealistic and start
dreaming really big.
It can happen.
>> I love it.
Thank you so much
for your time, Sonia.
>> Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]